---
next: 'Using Voice'
next_href: '200-using-voice'
next_aria: 'using voice'
---
### Welcome! 
Search for and hear the words of the Buddha with Voice.
Voice is a companion website for 
<a href="https://suttacentral.net" aria-label="sootacentral.net">
  SuttaCentral</a>,
which hosts the vast ocean of Early Buddhist Texts (aka. "EBTs") 
along with their translations into contemporary languages, making them
freely available to all.
Voice is designed to be 
audio accessible
and extends the SuttaCentral texts with full support for 
TTS readers such as JAWS, NVDA, and ChromeVox. 
However, sighted users will also find it a helpful way 
to explore and study the teachings of the Buddha. 

In the time of the Buddha, the Dhamma was heard, 
memorized and spoken for others. 
Indeed, the hearing, memorization and speaking of the 
Dhamma was a key part of the practice.

<blockquote><p><details>
  <summary>
    "These five things lead to..."
  </summary>
  <a href="https://suttacentral.net/an5.155/en/sujato#an5.155:6.1">
    AN5.155:6.1:</a>
  These five things lead to the continuation, persistence, 
  and enduring of the true teaching. What five?
  <ul>
    <li>
      It’s when the mendicants memorize the teaching—
      statements, songs, discussions, verses, inspired exclamations, 
      legends, stories of past lives, amazing stories, 
      and classifications. This is the first thing that leads 
      to the continuation, persistence, and enduring of the true teaching.
    </li>
    <li> 
      Furthermore, the mendicants explain the teaching in 
      detail to others as they learned and memorized it. 
      This is the second thing…
    </li>
    <li> 
      Furthermore, the mendicants make others recite the 
      teaching in detail as they learned and memorized it.  
      This is the third thing…
    </li>
    <li> 
      Furthermore, the mendicants recite the teaching in 
      detail as they learned and memorized it.  This is the fourth thing…
    </li>
    <li> 
      Furthermore, the mendicants think about and consider 
      the teaching in their hearts, examining it with their 
      minds as they learned and memorized it.
      This is the fifth thing that leads to the continuation, 
      persistence, and enduring of the true teaching.
    </li>
  </ul>
</details></p></blockquote>

Listen to and download the Buddha's words with 
[Voice](https://voice.suttacentral.net). 
Voice combines audio recordings by Bhante Sujato and others
with audio generated by customized AI narrators.
Furthermore, Voice provides access to *individual verses* 
(i.e., "segments") of the Dhamma. 
Here you can hear, memorize, and speak the Dhamma verse by verse.

